Minutes from ICNRG side meeting @ IETF-81 ¶

    •    Date: Tuesday 2011-07-26, 13:00 -- 15:00
    •    Location: Room 303AB

Draft Agenda
    •    Overview and Agenda bashing - Börje & Dirk [10 min]
    •    Information-Centric Networking Concepts and Scope - Dirk Kutscher [30 min]
    •    ICNRG charter proposal presentation and discussion - Börje Ohlman [45 min]  (Slides)
    •    Next Steps [20 min]

Number of participants: 39

Overview Discussion
----------------------------

Is ICN only of interest if done on a global scale?
Basically yes! It is intended as a new global networking architecture.

The type of dos attacks that can be made will be different, this needs to be dealt with.
Mobility will also pose a new set of issues, it might be easier to deal with when you can get your objects from multiple sources.

The goal of the RG?
The RG needs a goal - architecture?
Architecture is good to drive the work.

How may participants from ICN projects in the room? About 15-20

Why should people come here, compared to other events?
Compared to academic, interops, it easy to leverage other expertise in IETF/IRTF, good for bits work
Is there a way to merge things, better done here.

Lars: RGs are encouraged to meet in conjunction with IETF, but not only! Meetings at other venues are very welcome.

An issue might be that there are strong commercial interests in ICN.
DTN did not have strong commercial implications.

Marcelo: what is the goal: common architecture or not?

Lixia: premature convergence may be an issue


Charter Discussion
------------------------

Lars: is idea that every layer is information-centric? Doing something on application-layer may be sufficient for some people.
Börje: ICN must be designed so it can run on top of IP, it should be designed so that it does not require IP

Lixia: for different design approaches, challenges are different

Dave O: notion of having different kinds of ICNs on different networks may be premature statement
    could be a problematic starting point

Kathleen: mentioned objectives could be good things to look at for one approach

Kathleen: multiple approaches, hopefully open source
Börje: There are open source downloadable for 4WARD NetInf at neting.org, it includes Firefox and Thunderbird plugins. There is also an open globally available testbed up and running.

Lars: common protocol framework too early
     there is a question whether there are common components

Ove: would still be good to look at common components

Lixia: premature

Elwyn: projects have been running for a while

Lixia: should not merge projects
Börje: No one is proposing that.

Elwyn: too early merging would not be good, sure

Dave: danger of premature standardization, if this WG can keep topic
in research longer, that could be good

Mirja: how is this related to virtualization?
Boerje: not really

Lars: why this is interesting: Iot -- is related, especially for how to build applications
     - finding common components too early
     - looking into application that work with named data could be good umbrella
     - how do you build this Internet

Dave: there is a danger: not having balance between application view
of the work and the system's view of the work
  - if you look too early at apps requirement, you can end up in premature optimization
  - one idea: nothing in Internet architecture today talks about
    storage -- here we define storage as first class property of the
    architecture

Lixia: should keep in mind that there are different application types

Lixia: our project want to move faster, not slower
      want to see individual projects, different approaches -- not convergence
      need to start right from day one -- not unification
      need to understand differences

Joerg: could a research group not help in that?

Dave: outcome is important

Leslie: motivation would be come out of your specific project's box

Kathleen: CCN want to get their work done

Lars: what do we do?

Marcelo: organize workshop to assess interest

Joerg: that has been done already

Marcelo: forum to interact

Mirja: ALTO people are interested in this but were not able to come

Lars: get a room Saturday before next IETF to discuss research

NN: only reason for RG today is visibility

Lars: should be depend on meeting at every IETF

Lars: we are not at a point where we can charter something, a few ways forward:
     1) enhance charter proposal: forum, learn from each other, have something emerge eventually
     2) have one-day thing -- talk about technical stuff -- perhaps at SIGCOMM

Ove: don't think waiting makes it better